Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 5,305,981 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Hydrus is a small constellation in the deep southern sky. Its first appearance was on a celestial globe published in 1598 in Amsterdam by the astronomer Petrus Plancius and the cartographer Jodocus Hondius. The first celestial atlas to depict it was Johann Bayer's Uranometria, in 1603. The French explorer and astronomer Nicolas Louis de Lacaille charted the brighter stars and gave their Bayer designations in 1756. Its name means "male water snake", as opposed to Hydra, a much larger constellation that represents a female water snake. Hydrus remains below the horizon for most Northern Hemisphere observers. The brightest star is the 2.8-magnitude Beta Hydri, also the brightest star within 15° of the south celestial pole. Pulsating between magnitude 3.26 and 3.33, Gamma Hydri is a variable red giant some 60 times the diameter of our Sun. Near it is VW Hydri, one of the brightest dwarf novae in the heavens. Four star systems have been found to have exoplanets to date, including HD 10180, which might bear up to nine planetary companions. (Full article...) Recently featured: George Mason Fantastic Adventures Exsudoporus frostii Archive By email More featured articles... Did you know... Shah Mosque ... that in 1951, Prime Minister of Iran Haj Ali Razmara was shot dead by a religious fanatic while attending a memorial service at Tehran's Shah Mosque (pictured)? ... that retired Kingdom of Hawaii Attorney General Antone Rosa and former Interior Minister John F. Colburn were detained for driving a carriage into a fish market? ... that Solange Knowles performed a live cover of Nivea's song "Laundromat" in an actual laundromat? ... that Michael Lane, who served as Chief Engineer of the Great Western Railway, started out as a bricklayer but became one of Isambard Kingdom Brunel's most trusted assistants? ... that when its cheek pouches are full, the lesser spot-nosed monkey's throat resembles a snowball? ... that Dave Somers, the current executive of Snohomish County, Washington, was educated as a fisheries biologist? ... that there was no marker for the grave of theologian Theodorus Jacobus Frelinghuysen at Elm Ridge Cemetery for more than a century after his burial? ... that Steve Cooke and Beth Webster are the newest Eggheads? Recently improved articles Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Saint Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral An explosion at Saint Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral (pictured) in Cairo, Egypt, kills at least 25 people and injures many others. A church collapses in Uyo, Nigeria, killing at least 100 people. Two explosions outside a football stadium in Istanbul, Turkey, kill 38 people and injure 166 others. A freight train derails, explodes and catches fire at Hitrino, Bulgaria, killing 7 people and injuring 29 others. Pakistan International Airlines Flight 661 crashes near Havelian, Pakistan, killing all 47 people on board. Ongoing: UK football sexual abuse scandal Aleppo offensive Battle of Mosul Recent deaths: A. A. Gill Peter van Straaten John Glenn Warren Allmand On this day... December 12: Yule Lads begin arrival in Iceland Scene of the Clapham Junction rail crash 1531 – According to traditional Catholic accounts, the image of the Blessed Virgin Mary miraculously appeared imprinted on Juan Diego's tilma. 1866 – England's worst mining disaster occurred when a series of explosions caused by flammable gases ripped through the Oaks Colliery. 1941 – At a Nazi Party meeting in the Reich Chancellery, Adolf Hitler declared the imminent destruction of the Jewish race. 1956 – The Irish Republican Army began its Border Campaign, a guerrilla campaign to overthrow British rule in Northern Ireland. 1988 – Three trains collided (scene pictured) near Clapham Junction railway station in London, killing 35 people and injuring 484 others. More anniversaries: December 11 December 12 December 13 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Current date: December 12, 2016 (UTC) Reload this page From today's featured list Rajinikanth Rajinikanth's film career includes over 150 films. He made his screen debut with a small role in the Tamil film Apoorva Raagangal (1975). After playing antagonistic roles for the most part in his early career, he graduated to a lead actor. His performance in Mullum Malarum (1978) earned him a Special Mention at the Tamil Nadu State Film Awards. In the 1980s, he starred in a series of commercially successful films in Tamil cinema. During this time, he also had a brief stint in Bollywood, where he mostly played supporting roles; however, in the 1990s he had continued success as a lead actor in Tamil cinema with films like Annamalai (1992), Uzhaippali (1993), Baashha (1995) and Muthu (1995). The last one was a commercial success in Japan and was instrumental in creating a large fan base for him in the country. Rajinikanth was paid ?260 million for Sivaji; it made him the second-highest paid actor in Asia. He played dual roles – as a scientist and an android – in the 2010 science fiction film Enthiran, which is among the highest grossing Indian films of all time. (Full list...) Recently featured: Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross recipients of the Waffen-SS Destroyers of India Works by Leslie Charteris Archive More featured lists... Today's featured picture Lars Kruse (1828–1894) was a fisherman from Skagen in the far north of Jutland, Denmark, who was credited with saving over 200 lives. In one case, on 27 December 1862, he rescued much of the crew of the Swedish brig Daphne when it was stranded during a storm. Kruse also gained fame through his portraits, painted by Michael Ancher, and an account of his mistreatment written by Holger Drachmann in a mixture of poems and prose. Painting: Michael Ancher Recently featured: Mass grave Pulteney Bridge Grace Hopper Archive More featured pictures... Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,305,981 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski ??????? Svenska Ti?ng Vi?t More than 250,000 articles: ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català ?eština Euskara ????? ??? Magyar Norsk bokmål Português Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe ?????????? ?? More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski ????????? Dansk Eesti ???????? English (simple form) Esperanto Galego ????? Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? Norsk nynorsk Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=749836961" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Languages Simple English ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Bosanski ????????? Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? ????? Hrvatski Italiano ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Ti?ng Vi?t Türkçe ?????????? ?? This page was last modified on 16 November 2016, at 12:07. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view