jsoup News Bugs Discussion Download API Reference Cookbook Try jsoup jsoup » jsoup: Java HTML Parser jsoup: Java HTML Parser jsoup is a Java library for working with real-world HTML. It provides a very convenient API for extracting and manipulating data, using the best of DOM, CSS, and jquery-like methods. jsoup implements the WHATWG HTML5 specification, and parses HTML to the same DOM as modern browsers do. scrape and parse HTML from a URL, file, or string find and extract data, using DOM traversal or CSS selectors manipulate the HTML elements, attributes, and text clean user-submitted content against a safe white-list, to prevent XSS attacks output tidy HTML jsoup is designed to deal with all varieties of HTML found in the wild; from pristine and validating, to invalid tag-soup; jsoup will create a sensible parse tree. Example Fetch the Wikipedia homepage, parse it to a DOM, and select the headlines from the In the news section into a list of Elements (online sample): Document doc = Jsoup.connect("http://en.wikipedia.org/").get();
Elements newsHeadlines = doc.select("#mp-itn b a");
 Open source jsoup is an open source project distributed under the liberal MIT license. The source code is available at GitHub. Getting started Download the jsoup jar (version 1.10.1) Read the cookbook introduction Enjoy! Development and support If you have any questions on how to use jsoup, or have ideas for future development, please get in touch via the mailing list. If you find any issues, please file a bug after checking for duplicates. The colophon talks about the history of and tools used to build jsoup. Status jsoup is in general release. Cookbook contents Introduction Parsing and traversing a Document Input Parse a document from a String Parsing a body fragment Load a Document from a URL Load a Document from a File Extracting data Use DOM methods to navigate a document Use selector-syntax to find elements Extract attributes, text, and HTML from elements Working with URLs Example program: list links Modifying data Set attribute values Set the HTML of an element Setting the text content of elements Cleaning HTML Sanitize untrusted HTML (to prevent XSS) jsoup HTML parser © 2009 - 2016 Jonathan Hedley