Share on Facebook Tweet Share Save Share Stumble LOGIN Lifehack proves that getting healthy ain’t painful -- FREE health advice here! Motivation Communication Relationships Lifestyle Money LOGIN All Sections Communication Motivation Relationships Lifestyle Family Fitness Food And Drink Health Home Leisure Money Productivity Technology iOS Mac Work Products Wellness Inc. Quotes Books Deals About About Lifehack Authors Editors Become an author Advertise Terms Privacy Submit a bug Submit a copyright report Follow us Newsletter Facebook Twitter Pinterest Youtube Instagram RSS Lifehack proves that getting healthy ain’t painful -- FREE health advice here! × Login To Lifehack Home Sign Up for Our Newsletter Submit a Bug Contribute Terms Privacy 19 Real Life Examples of An Extroverted Introvert So You Don't Get Confused 13 Things to Remember If You Love A Person With Anxiety 15 Signs You're Doing Well In Life Even Though You Don't Think So Be Guarded Against Diseases: 10 Things That Weaken Your Immune System And 12 Immunity Boosters You... How to Be Awesome at Life Justin Harmon 463 Shares 463 SharesSHARES Share More Tweet Share Save Share Stumble Email How to Be Awesome at Life Justin Harmon | 463 Shares Awesome is defined by Merriam Webster as, “inspiring awe.” Now, you can interpret that many ways, both positively and negatively. What I think may be awesome might not be for you, or for someone else. This tutorial will define the definition of awesome, to mean inspiring awe, by being great. By becoming awesome in your life, you will open the door to the abundance of possibilities that come with putting out awesome vibes into the world. By learning how to be awesome and putting it to use in your own life, good things will start coming and happening to you on a regular basis. Awesomeness is a way of life It’s about how you behave and interact in the world. It’s about being your greatest self and putting yourself and what you have to offer out into the world. Being awesome is waking up each morning with the intention of moving forward on your journey, progressing as a person, and wanting to do whatever you can to make a positive difference in your life and the lives of others. Here are some examples of being awesome; Being optimistic and having a positive outlook Reaching for, finding, and living your passions and dreams Facing your fears and overcoming them with confidence Leading by examples of honesty, integrity, and thoughtfulness Helping others and giving back to your community, however you can Treating others as they deserve to be treated: with kindness and respect, unless they are not deserving (aka..not being awesome) Continue growing, learning, evolving, and participating in the world, helping to make a difference Having the courage to stand up for yourself and others Being able to raise your voice when no one’s listening Being of high character and having moral values  Bringing out your inner creativity and showing it to the world etc… To make it fair, here are some examples of how to be not-so-awesome; Being narcissistic and selfish, thinking only of yourself and your own needs Treating others badly because of your own situation Feeling sorry for yourself, taking your aggressions out on others, and being a Debbie downer Being greedy, corrupt, dishonest, unfaithful, asinine, or any other type of monster Being pessimistic and negative Hopefully, you now understand a little more about how to be awesome at life. Just cleaning up some of the not-so-awesome aspects and characteristics will help you on your way to becoming more awesome in your life. Benefits of being Awesome The benefits of being awesome are only limited to the amount of awesomeness you continue to attain. Like I said earlier, it’s a process, a journey. Being awesome can’t happen overnight, but if you start to practice it on a regular basis, you will begin to change as a person. More than likely, you will begin to become the person you truly want to be. Here are some clear advantages that come from acting in a more awesome-like fashion; The energy of awesomeness you put out into the world causes a ripple effect and does make an impact You will begin to feel better and will want to be happier, healthier, and truly free You will be inspiring and help people in their lives, making a difference The journey of life will begin to feel just like that — a journey of the pursuit of greatness First Steps to Take I’m sure you have a good understanding of how to be awesome in your own life by now, but what about getting started? After all, getting started and taking action is one of the most difficult and underused methods of moving forward in one’s life. The good news for you is, now that you know the hardest part is just starting, you know what you’re up against. Step 1: Listen to your inner voices In particular, listen to your conscience and inner consciousness. This is fairly easy if you take away the mystery aspect some may have. Find a quiet place where you can be alone, just you and your thoughts. Allow yourself to clear your mind of the clutter of your everyday life and just relax. Start to ponder on your life, how things are going, and if you are truly living up to your full potential. Step 2: Feel the Need If, after you have thought about what your life would look like if you were being more awesome, you do not feel an inner need to change, then don’t. You have to feel it. You have to want to participate on this journey. Not everyone wants to be awesome. That’s not to say they aren’t good people, it just means they are content with their current life situation, and that’s fine. Step 3: Start  If you feel the need to change your life and your current circumstances, all you have to do is start. Start following some of the earlier examples of ways to be awesome. Once you start doing the things in life that are awesome, you will see the effect it has on your thoughts, interactions with others, and feelings towards your life. Ready, Set, Go!!! Be awesome and help others become awesome too. SEE ALSO: How to Be Awesome at Followup Featured photo credit: ILHAVO, PORTUGAL - MARCH 31 via Shutterstock Love this article? Share it with your friends on Facebook Read full content Get more great stuff like this delivered straight to your inbox Love this article? Get more stuff like this in your inbox Sign up Please enter a valid email address × NEXT ARTICLE Daily Quote: Thinking is the Hardest Work… × × Get our hottest tips and hack your own life Like Us 1.1M I've already liked Lifehack on Facebook Get our hottest tips and hack your own life Follow Us 106K I've already followed Lifehack on twitter Get our hottest tips and hack your own life Follow Us 414K I've already followed Lifehack on pinterest Get our hottest tips and hack your own life Get them delivered straight to your inbox. It's free. Sign up Please enter a valid email address I've already subscribed newsletter It's never too late to start over. If you weren't happy with yesterday, try something different today. Don't stay stuck. Do better. I agree I disagree × We think so, too! Join Lifehack newsletter and we will inspire you to pursue a happier existence. Sign up for free! Please enter a valid email address × Great to See You on Lifehack! We’re glad that you’re subscribing to Lifehack and hope you’ll enjoy reading through! Remember to confirm the subscription in the confirmation email. We think so, too! × Like us on facebook and we will inspire you to pursure a happier existence. Like us 1.1M Follow us on Twitter and we will inspire you to pursue a happier existence. Follow Us 106K Follow us on pinterest and we will inspire you to pursure a happier existence. Follow Us 414K × We think so, too! Share this article to Facebook to inspire more people with us! Share on Facebook It's never too late to start over. If you weren't happy with yesterday, try something different today. Don't stay stuck. Do better. I Agree I Disagree × We think so, too! Join Lifehack newsletter and we will inspire you to pursue a happier existence. Sign up for free! Please enter a valid email address × Great to See You on Lifehack! We’re glad that you’re subscribing to Lifehack and hope you’ll enjoy reading through! Remember to confirm the subscription in the confirmation email. × We think so, too! Like us on facebook and we will inspire you to pursure a happier existence. × We think so, too! Follow us on pinterest and we will inspire you to pursure a happier existence. Follow us on Pinterest × We think so, too! Share this article to Facebook to inspire more people with us! Share on Facebook × Great! The post is successfully saved to your collection. Well Done! You have finished the post and the post is removed from your collection. Save your next post to read now. Love this article? Share it with your friends on Facebook Share it on Facebook Get set goal! You'll receive daily email that helps you achieve goals right in the morning. Hurray! You are taking up the role in the . Soon you'll get our articles in your inbox!