MESSAGES LOG IN Log in via Log In Remember me Forgot password? Create an account EXPLORE Community Dashboard Random Article About Us Categories Recent Changes HELP US Write an Article Request a New Article Answer a Request More Ideas... EDIT Edit this Article Home » Categories » Health » Emotional Health » Assertiveness & Self Esteem Article Edit Discuss Edit Article How to Be Awesome (for Boys) Three Methods:Being YourselfImproving YourselfPresenting YourselfCommunity Q&A No magical, step-by-step program for awesomeness exists. There are a variety of ways to be awesome. What is your definition of “awesome”? What image comes to mind when you hear that word? If you’re reading this page, you likely care about how others perceive you. However, the most important person that you can convince of your awesomeness is you! If you have confidence in yourself, others will see how awesome you are! Steps Method 1 Being Yourself 1 Don’t worry about what other people think. Although you want people to see you as the cool guy, the best way to be un-awesome is to constantly ask for other people’s approval. This type of behavior makes you look needy. [1] Instead of wondering if other people like you, decide if you like yourself. It’s natural to care about what others think of you. However, you can’t please everyone all the time, and sometimes your personality will clash with other people’s, and they just won’t like you. Instead of trying to please everyone, consider who is in your life that really matters to you, such as your mom or dad, grandparent, or best friend. If the people closest to you like and love you, it’s easier to dismiss the opinions of those who don’t.[2] For instance, say someone who is not on your list of people who really matter (a guy at school who isn’t a close friend, for instance) insults you or speaks badly about you behind your back. Consider, very briefly, what that person said. Is there any truth to it? Likely, there isn’t, so just dismiss it by reminding yourself that this is not a person whose opinion matters.[3] If you are a person who craves affirmation through social media, consider limiting your time on facebook and instagram or suspending your account. "Likes" and "hearts" aren't an accurate measure of your awesomeness. 2 Be authentic, not fake. [4] To be authentic, you’ll first need to reflect on who you are and be confident in yourself. People will know if you are just saying what they want to hear or just acting a certain way to fit in with the crowd. Don’t be a show off. If people think you are constantly performing a role to get attention, they won’t know when you are being genuine or when you have something serious to say. For example, if you play the role of the “class clown,” you will entertain people, but they will never take you seriously. They may also be laughing at you—not just with you. It may take a little while and a little experimentation, but trust yourself to come to know the real you. Reflect on your behaviors and your emotions. Did you tell a friend you would hang out, even though you don’t want to? Being inauthentic leads to feeling dissatisfied and restless, while being true to yourself will result in feelings of happiness and satisfaction.[5] Consider keeping a log of your behaviors and emotions to determine the moments when you are your most authentic self. Self-awareness is the primary quality of being authentic.[6] If you practice reflection on a daily or weekly basis, you will become more self-aware and therefore more authentic. 3 Discover your passions. [7] The most awesome people do what they love and don’t apologize for it. Do you love art, books, music, or sports? Whatever it is, do it! Very cool people have something that they do really well. Once you find your passion, work toward being the best. Maybe your passion is basketball, but you can never make the three-pointer. Practice at this until you can do it with your eyes closed! People will come to know you as “that awesome guy who scores all the three-pointers!” Share what you love with others. For instance, if you like reading, start a book club. Being transparent about your passions will also help you find other people who have similar interests, too. Method 2 Improving Yourself 1 Make a list of the qualities you think are awesome in others. Ask yourself why you think these things are awesome. Is it something you can attain yourself? If not, is there something different you could do? 2 Develop the aspects of yourself that aren't so awesome. Remember that there is no standard set of things that everyone wants to be in life. For some, this may mean getting in shape. For others, it may be growing musical talent or reading more books. Whatever aspect you decide to develop, create a plan and stick to it. If you want to learn to play guitar, sign up for guitar lessons and practice every day. If you want to read more books, create a TBR (to be read) list and set a monthly goal for the amount of books you will read. Keep at it! Quitters are never awesome, and you don’t want to have a reputation of being someone who abandons a project. Others will see and admire your determination. 3 Be optimistic. [8] Awesome people enjoy life, but they also have really tough days. When you are down, find the silver lining, but also find ways to make the situation better next time. Maybe you earned a poor grade on your math test. Instead of moaning about it, do your homework and find someone to tutor you before the next exam. 4 Find the humor in life. Watch stand-up comedy or listen to comedy podcasts. Listening to comedy will help you see life in a more humorous manner and not take yourself too seriously. If you are naturally a negative person, finding the humor in situations you would normally be upset about is very important. Others don’t really want to hang out with negative people.[9] 5 Be a maker. Work to try to create the awesome things you love. People will know instinctively that someone who creates things is awesome. 6 Believe in yourself, but don’t be conceited. You shouldn’t need to tell everyone that you are totally awesome. Let your actions speak for you. 7 Develop your relationships. Make sure the people in your life know they matter by showing gratitude and kindness. For instance, if your teammate set you up for a great score in soccer practice, tell them how awesome they are and return the favor next time. Be generous with your time by helping others. If you see someone in your class struggling with the math homework and you are really great at math, offer to work with them after school. You might just make a new friend! Speak up when you see someone being bullied at school. No one thinks bullies are awesome. By standing up for yourself and others, you will be seen as a hero—just don’t wear a cape! Method 3 Presenting Yourself 1 Connect with others. [10] Talk to other people and listen to what they have to say. Show them that you care about their well-being. Even greeting people in the hall at school with a simple, “Hi, how’s it going?” shows that you aren’t entirely self-involved. 2 Be a leader, not a follower. Being a leader means being responsible not only for yourself, but for others, as well. 3 Dress nicely. Clothes can help you be a more confident person. You don’t need to have the most expensive threads, but if you wear things that make you feel comfortable, you will appear more confident. If you don’t know what kind of clothes you like to wear, take a friend shopping with you and try out some new looks! 4 Have good hygiene. [11] Wear deodorant and brush your teeth (obviously), but also take care of your skin, hair, and nails. If you struggle with acne, be sure you are using facial wash that helps to prevent acne. Visit a dermatologist if you can. While caring for your hair and nails might sound “girly,” know that girls notice these details. If you have short hair, be sure to visit your barber when your hair begins to grow over your ears or looks unkempt. (If unkempt is your style, go with it!) Trim your nails regularly, and cut—don’t pull—any hangnails. 5 Practice good posture. Often, people have a first impression of you based not on what you say but on what your body says. How you position your body says a lot about you. Stand tall with your shoulders back, but don’t look stiff! [12] Don’t close off your body by crossing your arms or legs. This type of body language says: “Leave me alone!”[13] 6 Act confidently. Don’t be that annoying person who always talks about doing something but never does it. Just go for it! Community Q&A Search Add New Question Ask a Question 200 characters left Submit Already answered Not a question Bad question Other If this question (or a similar one) is answered twice in this section, please click here to let us know. Tips Have confidence in yourself. Trust your instincts, and good luck on your path to being awesome! Don’t let your friends limit your interests. Make sure that what you do is awesome to you. If you don't believe it, no one else will either. When trying to be optimistic, think about the future and how you have absolute control over what you will be like when you're older. The fact that you always have the opportunity for self-improvement is what makes life so great, and realizing that will make you awesome. Warnings While confidence is good, don't overexert your confidence or you will appear arrogant and self-centered. While arrogant and self-centered people may love themselves, they are generally not considered awesome by the general public. When trying to be awesome remember that trying too hard to be anything can be very-not-awesome. Awesomeness isn't a quality determined by material things. Cars and nice clothes may help you appear awesome, but they will not make you something you're not. EditRelated wikiHows How to Be Cool How to Be Cool at School How to Get in Shape How to Be Confident How to Feel Confident How to Look Amazing How to Be Yourself How to Come to Terms with Feeling Ugly How to Be a Man How to Go from Introvert to Extrovert Sources and Citations ? http://www.menprovement.com/cool-guy/ ? https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/fighting-fear/201306/caring-what-other-people-think ? https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/fighting-fear/201306/caring-what-other-people-think ? http://www.menprovement.com/cool-guy/ ? https://www.psychologytoday.com/articles/200804/dare-be-yourself ? https://www.psychologytoday.com/articles/200804/dare-be-yourself ? http://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/how-to-be-awesome-at-life.html ? http://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/how-to-be-awesome-at-life.html ? http://www.lifehack.org/articles/communication/how-to-be-awesome-at-life.html ? http://www.menprovement.com/cool-guy/ ? http://www.menprovement.com/cool-guy/ ? https://www.americanexpress.com/us/small-business/openforum/articles/4-ways-your-body-language-can-project-confidence/ ? https://www.americanexpress.com/us/small-business/openforum/articles/4-ways-your-body-language-can-project-confidence/ Show more... (10) Article Info Categories: Assertiveness & Self Esteem In other languages: Español: ser fenomenal (para chicos), Italiano: Essere Grandioso, ???????: ????? ??????????? ??????, Português: Ser O Máximo (Para Meninos) Discuss Print Email Edit Send fan mail to authors Thanks to all authors for creating a page that has been read 199,647 times. Did this article help you? Yes No   Cookies make wikiHow better. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy. About this wikiHow 270 reviews Click a star to vote Click a star to vote Thanks for voting! Co-authors: 129 Updated: Views:  199,647 52% of people told us that this article helped them. Quick Tips Related Articles How to Be Cool How to Be Cool at School How to Get in Shape How to Be Confident Home About wikiHow Jobs Terms of Use RSS Site map Log In Mobile view All text shared under a Creative Commons License. Powered by Mediawiki. Help answer questions Learn more 180